Move promotion process from issues to a file structure (#16)
istio/enhancements: FEATURES.md

requirements for promoting a feature to the next level are met, the [features](features.yaml)
file may be updated to indicate this maturity level.

## Features.yaml

Features.yaml tracks the maturity of all Istio features. This is written
in YAML so that it can be easily processed by any tooling that needs to
track feature maturity. Each feature in Istio should have a features
entry as described below.

```
features:
  - name: "Protocols:HTTP1.1/HTTP2/gRPC/TCP"
    maturityLevel: Stable
    state: active
    stateDetails: 
      nextStateChange:
      deprecationAnnouncement:
    nextPromotionBefore:
    promotionChecklist:
```

* *****Name** indicates the name of the feature.
* ********maturityLevel** indicates the maturity level of a feature. This can be `experimental`, `alpha`, `beta`, or `stable`. Experimental is an optional maturity level that can be skipped. For alpha, beta, and stable, all requirements for the previous levels must be met before a feature can meet the next level (i.e. a stable feature has met the requirements of both alpha and beta). There may be features for which a requirement is not applicable.

>   * **state** indicates the current state of a feature. This can be `active`,`deprecated`, or `retired`. Active features are safe to use according to the [feature phase definitions](https://istio.io/latest/about/feature-stages/). While a feature is deprecated, both the deprecated feature and any replacement are supported but users should move off of these deprecated feature as it will be removed in a future release. Retired features are no longer supported and should not be used. Deprecation time varies depending on the [current maturity level](https://istio.io/latest/about/feature-stages/) and may only be declared in an LTS release.

Reviewer: @brian-avery I wonder if state should be a structure, like:

```
state{
    name string
    begin time
    details string
}
```

Then you could have:

```
feature {
    state state
    nextState state
}
```

Author: I like it. Need to tie in maturity as well. Maturity needs to make sure that a promotion takes place before x date to confirm that it's staying on track, while state advances automatically on a date. So something like:

feature {
  name string
  level level
  state state
  nextState state
}

level{
  checkList string
  currentLevel enum{experimental,alpha,beta,stable}
  promotionBefore date
}

state{
    state enum{active,deprecated,retired}
    begin time
    details string
}

# Feature Maturity

Maturity of features in Istio indicate to users what they can [expect](https://istio.io/latest/about/feature-stages/) by using these
features. In Istio, we track these requirements using a [template](features/feature_template.md). Once all
requirements for promoting a feature to the next level are met, the [features](features.yaml)
file may be updated to indicate this maturity level.

## Features.yaml

Features.yaml tracks the maturity of all Istio features. This is written
in YAML so that it can be easily processed by any tooling that needs to
track feature maturity. Each feature in Istio should have a features
entry as described below.

```
features:
  - name: "Protocols:HTTP1.1/HTTP2/gRPC/TCP"
    level
      - checkList: 
        current:
        promotionBefore:
    state
      - state:
        begin:
        details:
```

* **Name** indicates the name of the feature.
* **level** indicates the maturity level of a feature.
* **level.checklist** is the path to the checklist to track a feature's maturity.

> * **level.current** is the current maturity level of the feature. This can be `experimental`, `alpha`, `beta`, or `stable`. Experimental is an optional maturity level that can be skipped. For alpha, beta, and stable, all requirements for the previous levels must be met before a feature can meet the next level (i.e. a stable feature has met the requirements of both alpha and beta). There may be features for which a requirement is not applicable.

Reviewer 2: Don't love level.current, maybe level.maturity or level.stage or something?

Author: level.maturity works for me.

> * **level.promotionBefore** indicates when the next promotion of a feature is expected. Up until a feature is stable, a feature is expected to be continously maturing. The `promotionBefore` field indicates when a feature is expected to reach the next level of maturity. If a feature doesn't get promoted within that timespan, a decision needs to be made as to whether that promotion date should be extended or that feature should be deprecated. A long window is given with the assumption that it should be enough time for features to be promoted, so the default is to deprecate that feature after this date. However, exceptions may be made to this in a feature by feature basis.

Author: Talking to @howardjohn it sounds like there are some exceptions to the advancement goal. For example, Envoy filters are currently alpha and will never advance past that as they are a stop-gap. It may be useful to have a "frozen" or something similar option here.

Author: Redefined this to be a release and added a value of `never`. This should be used in very rare circumstances though.

> * **level.promotionBefore** indicates the Istio release by which the next promotion of a feature is expected. Up until a feature is stable, a feature is expected to be continously maturing. The `promotionBefore` field indicates when a feature is expected to reach the next level of maturity. If a feature doesn't get promoted within that timespan, a decision needs to be made as to whether that promotion date should be extended or that feature should be deprecated. A long window is given with the assumption that it should be enough time for features to be promoted, so the default is to deprecate that feature after this date. However, exceptions may be made to this in a feature by feature basis. In some rare circumstances, features will be permanently in a state below stable and never expected to be promoted. For those circumstances, this field can be marked `never`.

Reviewer 2: I don't love the name "promotionBefore" since it isn't clear what it means.

Maybe nextExpectedPromotion or something like that?

Author: Is nextExpectedPromotion clearer? The intention is to have a date by which it should be promoted or  revisited to decide on how to approach it.

> * **state** indicates the current state of a feature. This can be `active`,`deprecated`, or `retired`. Active features are safe to use according to the [feature phase definitions](https://istio.io/latest/about/feature-stages/). While a feature is deprecated, both the deprecated feature and any replacement are supported but users should move off of these deprecated feature as it will be removed in a future release. Retired features are no longer supported and should not be used. Deprecation time varies depending on the [current maturity level](https://istio.io/latest/about/feature-stages/) and may only be declared in an LTS release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **state** indicates the current state of a feature. This can be `active`,`deprecated`, or `retired`. Active features are safe to use according to the [feature phase definitions](https://istio.io/latest/about/feature-stages/). When a feature is deprecated, both the deprecated feature and any replacement are supported but users should move off of the deprecated feature as it will be removed in a future release. Retired features are no longer supported and should not be used. Deprecation time varies depending on the [current maturity level](https://istio.io/latest/about/feature-stages/).
```

Reviewer 2: Dropped the LTS thing since we don't have LTS releases I think.

Author: That's right. We renamed LTS to minor release.

Author: Actually, not sure when is appropriate. This is discussing a feature being both deprecated and having a replacement. Once the deprecation is done that feature is no longer supported.

> * **state** indicates the current state of a feature. This can be `active`,`deprecated`, or `retired`. Active features are safe to use according to the [feature phase definitions](https://istio.io/latest/about/feature-stages/). While a feature is deprecated, both the deprecated feature and any replacement are supported but users should move off of these deprecated feature as it will be removed in a future release. Retired features are no longer supported and should not be used. Deprecation time varies depending on the [current maturity level](https://istio.io/latest/about/feature-stages/) and may only be declared in an LTS release.

Author: I wonder if the issue here is really the use of the term state. This information is really to track deprecation/retirement of features. 

At that point, the maturity (experimental/alpha/beta) is frozen and the feature is on its way out. While the feature is on its way out, it progresses through deprecated and then retired. There is a time period during which a feature has to be deprecated before it can be retired and that varies depending on the maturity of the feature.

> * **state.details** should be set when a feature moves out of the active state. These do not apply to active features.

Reviewer 2: Provide more details on what will be here (for example links to the replacement for deprecated or retired features).

Author: Thanks. Yeah, we still need to figure out exactly what needs to be specified for retired features. For now, I'm happy either to remove it or to add just a link to the doc for a replacement.

> * **state.begin** indicates the date at which the feature will move to the next state. For deprecated features, this is the date that the feature will be retired. 

Reviewer 2: state.begin is a confusing name, especially if it means something different on different states.

```
features:
  - name: "Protocols:HTTP1.1/HTTP2/gRPC/TCP"
    level:
      - checkList: 
        maturity:
        nextExpectedPromotion:
	deprecation:
      - state:
        begin:
        details:
		- replacement: 
```

* **Name** indicates the name of the feature.
* **level** indicates the maturity level of a feature.
* **level.checklist** is the path to the checklist to track a feature's maturity.
* **level.maturity** is the current maturity level of the feature. This can be `experimental`, `alpha`, `beta`, or `stable`. Experimental is an optional maturity level that can be skipped. For alpha, beta, and stable, all requirements for the previous levels must be met before a feature can meet the next level (i.e. a stable feature has met the requirements of both alpha and beta). There may be features for which a requirement is not applicable.

> * **level.nextExpectedPromotion** indicates the Istio release by which the next promotion of a feature is expected. Up until a feature is stable, a feature is expected to continuously mature. If a feature doesn't get promoted, this should be extended or the feature should be deprecated. A long window is given to allow sufficient time for features to be promoted, so the default is to deprecate. However, exceptions may be made to this for some features. In some rare circumstances, features will be permanently in a state below stable and never expected to be promoted. For those circumstances, this field can be marked `never`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **level.nextExpectedPromotion** indicates the Istio release by which the next promotion of a feature is expected. Up until a feature is stable, a feature is expected to continuously mature. If a feature doesn't get promoted, this should be extended or the feature should be deprecated.  In some rare circumstances, features will be permanently in a state below stable and never expected to be promoted. For those circumstances, this field can be marked `never`.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't think we yet know what the default is for features that miss their expected promotion so can just leave that part out for now.

Author: Agreed. Thanks.

> * **deprecation** indicates the current  deprecation state of a feature. This can be `dprecated`, or `retired`. When a feature is deprecated, users should consider migrating to a replacement as retired features may be removed. Deprecation time varies depending on the [current maturity level](https://istio.io/latest/about/feature-stages/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **deprecation** indicates the current  deprecation state of a feature. This can be `deprecated` or `retired`. When a feature is deprecated, users should consider migrating to a replacement as retired features may be removed. Deprecation time varies depending on the [current maturity level](https://istio.io/latest/about/feature-stages/).
```
